source: OU Daily — Campus Mini-guide
url: https://www.oudaily.com/campus-mini-guide/article_dcf84c33-8fc3-5f6c-b282-b0051242ca3b.html
date: 2002-08-26
---
Campus Mini-guide

As an incoming student to OU, finding classes can be a difficult and frustrating experience. The Oklahoma Daily hopes to ease some of the pain by creating this survival guide to OU.

It's all about location

At OU, the campus has two major areas for determining one's location; the North Oval and the South Oval which are on the north and south ends of campus respectively. If one walks from the residence halls to Bizzell Memorial Library, they cross the South Oval. The North Oval is on the other side of the library and runs from Evans Hall to Campus Corner.

The South Oval

Many undergraduate classes are in the buildings on the west side of the South Oval. The southernmost building is Dale Hall. Dale Hall is full of huge lecture halls that are used for many lower level classes. A wide range of subjects are taught there, from history to psychology, anthropology to political science. Behind Dale Hall is Dale Tower, which is used for more of the same plus it has the offices of many professors.

Walking north from Dale Hall takes a person past Copeland Hall, the journalism building, and Collings Hall, the education building. Most new students shouldn't have classes in these buildings unless they are in their prospective fields of study.

Kaufman Hall is next on the journey north. Students taking foreign language classes will probably have class in Kaufman. Next to Kaufman is Gittinger Hall, which is predominately English classes but contains a bit of everything. The area in front of Kaufman and Gittinger is a popular place for people to sit because of its abundant benches and shade.

From Gittinger Hall, one comes to the side of Nielson Hall. Nielson is the science building, which is evident by the word "Physics" carved over its side door. It's used for science classes mostly, but math and even film classes have been scheduled there in the past. Nielson has two huge lecture halls that are used frequently by professors as well as the student government.

The northern most point on the South Oval is the library. It's full of books; so full they put seven floors of books in four floors. This wonder in storage achievement is known as the stacks and is one of the creepiest places on campus.

Across the oval are Richards Hall, George Lynn Cross Hall and Gould Hall. Richards hall is for zoology, Cross is for botany and micro-biology and Gould is for architecture. Gould Hall is usually referred to as the ugliest building on campus.

The North Oval

Most buildings on the North Oval are used primarily for administration purposes. Evans Hall, the building behind the library, is where President Boren's office is. The biggest asset to an incoming student is most likely the visitors center, located in Jacobson Hall. The visitors center can answer almost any question about the university and if they can't, they usually know of someone who can. Jacobson Hall is at the northern most end of the North Oval.

Off the North Oval, behind the library to the west is the Physical Sciences Center. This massive building is another place full of classrooms, but they vary in size from large lecture halls to rooms the size of a large closet. Classes not on the main floor can be difficult to get to because the building has a funky elevator system. Getting lost is easy, but the Physical Sciences Center is easy to get around with some practice.

On the opposite side of the library is Adams Hall, which is home to the Michael F. Price School of Business. Business majors go there almost exclusively. North of it is Buchanan Hall. Buchanan Hall is where the Bursar's office is and where most student records related business takes place.

From Buchanan Hall, if one crosses the sidewalk, they will end up at the Oklahoma Memorial Union. The union is a place of wonder, vast as the sea is deep and has a 24 hour restaurant called Crossroads. While there aren't classes offered there, it's a great place to eat and find entertainment.

Across the street from the union is Felgar Hall. Felgar and all the buildings surrounding it are home to the College of Engineering. If someone has a class in Felgar Hall, Carson Energy Center or Sarkeys Energy Center, their class will be in that area of campus. The buildings are easily distinguished between. Felgar has a pyramid in front, Carson is tall and narrow and Sarkeys is the tallest building on campus.

So Why is it All Spread Out?

In an interview with Judy Stockdale, OU's classroom scheduler, she said that "the four main buildings for lower level classes are Dale Hall, Gittinger Hall, Felgar Hall and the Physical Sciences Center." This is due to the fact that these buildings house many of the largest lecture halls on campus.

"We try to keep freshmen on the South Oval. Our big classes are there," Stockdale said.

Stockdale explained that with the large number of students, classes must be spread across the Norman campus to meet the demand.
