source: OU Daily — "COLUMN: Best study spots around campus"
url: https://www.oudaily.com/l_and_a/arts_and_entertainment/column-best-study-spots-around-campus/article_f07ddb83-da64-5f57-bfa3-ea282f8ecf5d.html
date: 2010-08-16
---
COLUMN: Best study spots around campus

In a few weeks those pesky midterms are going to sneak up on you and you'll want to be prepared. But first, you have to know where you're going to settle in to study. Campus offers a wide variety of options to suit even the pickiest studier's needs, so hold on to your hats as The Daily steps you through a list of some of the best places OU has to offer.

BEAIRD LOUNGE

Located on the second floor of the Oklahoma Memorial Union, Beaird is often referred to as the "living room of the university." This fairly large room feels cozy with rich rugs and comfy couches. Silent studiers beware: This is not a quiet location. A piano near the entrance beckons practiced players to exercise the keys, but not all those who give it a whirl are professionals. You'll also hear a lot of amateur clunking, and hey, when you need a break from highlighting, you can take a turn, too. This location offers giant wooden tables for a group session, sofas for a small group, and plenty of chairs if it's just you. If you want a lively atmosphere, Beaird is definitely the place to go. If all that reading makes you hungry, you also have the advantage of being just a floor away from the Union Food Court, Crossroads and Starbucks. Definitely don't give it a shot if you are easily distracted, though.

BIZZELL MEMORIAL LIBRARY

The Bizz may seem fairly straightforward, but don't be fooled. This behemoth building offers multiple different study locations, but all with one common theme: "Shhh." You've probably heard about the Great Reading Room with the individually carved figures lining the ceiling. This is a "uniquely OU" spot to settle in, and if you need zero distractions, this is for you. People even unzip their backpacks before they enter the room so this area stays silent.

If you're looking for something a little less intimidating but still mostly quiet, set up camp on one of the many comfortable couches scattered throughout the building. You'll have to find one that's not being used for a midday nap, though.

And finally, group study rooms can be reserved for two hours for groups between two to six people. You can reserve in person or by calling 405-325-3341, but they ask for a seven-day advance notice. The advantage of studying at Bizzell is the resources available: You're in a location that houses more 5 million books. Plus, if you forget your textbook, the library has a collection of many required books that you can check out for two hours at a time. There also is a computer area, and Bizzell offers laptops for three-hour check out.

TOWERS: 12TH FLOOR STUDY LOUNGES

Not up for a long walk? Never fear, the Towers are here. Just a short trip up the elevator can land you in No. 3 of our study spots. The 12th floors of Couch and Walker Tower are home to 24-hour study lounges. You can check in at the first room, and check out dry-erase markers for the boards located in each room. As you walk down the hall, you have your pick of an entire hall of converted rooms that each offer a table with chairs, a dry erase board, and a few armchairs. And if you've been drinking a lot of fluids and need a quick trip to the powder room, the bathrooms between each room are still intact.

This location has seen many all-nighters, and it's a great spot to work on a group project or to pound out a paper. You can be as talkative or as quiet as you want to be. I wouldn't recommend running screaming down the halls, though. The study lounge doors close, but they're not soundproof. Keep it respectful.

Note: The 12th floors of Adams Tower are composed half of rooms and half of a lounge that you can use to study. But remember, people are sleeping just a few feet over, so keep the volume to a reasonable level if you're there past 10 p.m.

HONORS COLLEGE COURTYARD

While we're on the subject of residence halls, the Honors College courtyard is a peaceful location to set up camp. This beautiful garden is almost hidden near the doors of the college, and it has benches and wooden tables for you to claim. The walls of the college will keep that Oklahoma wind at bay, and on nice nights, this is a wonderful spot to study. The area stays fairly quiet, but not everyone that hangs out there is studying, so you may have to move if other groups get too loud for your taste. The Honors College library is just a few steps inside, but you do have to be an Honor's College student in order to take advantage of that resource. The courtyard, however, is open to anyone.

CAMPUS CORNER

Home to some of the best shopping and dining that Norman has to offer, Campus Corner also provides several locations to get your study on. A fan favorite, Café Plaid has an outdoor patio where many students choose to hit the books. The locale sells salads, soups, sandwiches and spuds, as well as a yummy cookie selection. There are also indoor booths and tables if you're not interested in fighting the elements (and the mosquitoes). Café Plaid is located directly across from the North Oval. Its popular Brown Bag Combo, which includes half a sandwich, a small salad or cup of soup and a cookie, costs about $7.

Campus Corner also offers a Starbucks that has seats and tables for studiers, which might be an advantage over the union Starbucks. The union Starbucks, however, accepts meal points. Bottom line — if you're a snack-hungry studier, Campus Corner is a great place for you.

SOUTH OVAL

With trees and benches aplenty, this grassy and well-traversed section of campus is a great place to lay down a blanket and pull out your books between classes. This spot offers the advantage of being right at the heart of campus, so it's a nice halfway point between your art class at the Fred Jones Jr. Museum of Art and your general education course in Dale Hall. If you don't want to share your space with a few stray ants, though, the outdoors might not be the best place for you.

However, beware that you are subject to the elements, and yes, that Oklahoma wind really does come sweeping down the plains. Mathematics and anthropology fifth-year senior Nathan Crain said he rarely studies outside for that very reason.

"The wind always blows my book pages shut," he said.

YOUR DORM ROOM

Last but certainly not least, take advantage of convenience and settle down in your own room. Not only do you have everything you could possibly need, you can also stay up until 2 a.m. studying, and then skip the 20-minute walk back to your room, and just go straight to bed. However, you and your roommate may need to work out a system in order to ensure that he or she isn't blasting All-American Rejects while you're trying to understand physics.

Remember, as you go through the year, you will carve out your own favorite study locations, and your specific major might offer its own places for you to discover. Meteorology grad student Daniel Hartsock said he likes to study at the National Weather Center, but frequents the library to get a change of pace and take a break from the NWC.
