source: OU Daily — "Ten must-have apps for OU students"
url: https://www.oudaily.com/news/ten-must-have-apps-for-ou-students/article_8b76ddb0-628d-11e7-bc1a-9bacddce66dc.html
date: 2017-07
---
Ten must-have apps for OU students

Most incoming freshmen will have one thing when they arrive on campus: a smartphone. Here are a few free apps you should download before arriving in the fall. Each app listed below is available for download on both iPhones and Androids.

1. The OU App

This is an all-in-one app perfect for any student. The app can direct you to various OU features including Canvas, financial aid and your email account. In addition, it links you to the OU Free Food Twitter page, which announces where free food can be found on campus. It is also perfect for new students as the app provides a map of campus linked with Google Maps. No need to ask around for directions!

2. OU Innovate App

This app is a must-have for the commuter student. It provides real-time parking availability for the different parking lots on campus. It is also necessary for students wishing to use SafeRide, a free cab service in Norman for OU students Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights from 10 p.m. to 3 a.m.

3. SoonerSports2Go

Want to keep up with all of the OU sports teams? Download the SoonerSports2Go app. It provides news, scores and live stats for every OU sport. If you are busy with homework or out of town and can't attend a game day, the app even provides access to live audio and video.

4. SoBi

OU recently began a bike sharing program, Crimson Cruisers, where you can rent bikes on campus to use when you want. In order to use a Crimson Cruiser, however, you must download the SoBi app in order to lock and unlock the bikes. The bike sharing program allows students to rent bikes for free for one hour and $5 for every hour after.

5. Tapingo

If you don't like waiting in lines for food, Tapingo is an app you should download. The mobile food ordering app allows students to link their debit card or meal points to their account and order meals from any participating restaurants on campus to pick up. Virtually every restaurant on OU's campus provides Tapingo services. The app also provides delivery services from participating restaurants in Norman.

6. Hooked

For the money saving college student, the Hooked Deals app is perfect to find deals in various restaurants in Norman. The deals vary from day-to-day, and students must show cashiers the coupon provided on the app.

7. Pocket Points

If you need to find a way to stay off of your phone in class, then Pocket Points is the app for you. Pocket Points allows you to sign in while in class. It then keeps track of how long you keep your phone locked. Depending on how long your phone is locked, you receive points, which translate into discounts that can be redeemed at various businesses in Norman.

8. Quizlet

The Quizlet app is designed for students who wish to study on the go. The app allows you to create your own digital flashcards and then provides you with different methods and games to study virtually anywhere.

9. Duolingo

If you are required to take a foreign language while at OU, Duolingo is a great study tool. The app helps you learn a new language by providing activities to practice reading, verbal and listening skills though different lessons in an easy-to-use interface. It also keeps track of how frequently you use the app and sends notifications to encourage you to keep going.

10. GroupMe

If you did not already download GroupMe during your time at Camp Crimson, you will have it on your phone by the end of your first day at OU. The app is a group messaging app various clubs, classes and work places utilize to keep up with all its members.
