source: Roomsurf — Adams, Couch, and Walker Center dorm reviews (University of Oklahoma)
url: https://www.roomsurf.com/dorm-reviews/ou/adams,-couch,-and-walker-center/21369
date: 2023
---
Adams, Couch, and Walker Center Dorm Reviews — University of Oklahoma

Review by Heidi E (rating 3.8 out of 5, dated 08/07/23): I lived in Adams tarman tower and I really enjoyed it. I loved my suietmates and all of the RAs. I new many of the cleaning staff by name and even would have lunch with them after my classes. It was a really kind and close environment. Everywhere you turned someone knew you and was saying hi. It wasn't the prettiest tower, but I did not really care about looks I wanted good memories which I have many.

Review by Megan O (rating 2.6 out of 5, dated 06/18/21): Something was always breaking, always flooding, or always hot in rooms. The location at the WAM was perfect though and the Cane's at the bottom of Adams was great--went there a lot. In the winter the rooms are burning up, the air conditioners were always breaking and flooding rooms.

Review by Verified Resident (rating 3.1 out of 5, dated 02/05/21): Average on a good day, dismal on a bad. The dorms are small and the bathrooms are just small. The actual rooms are okay but their are a fair amount of maintenance issues that one has to deal with. For example, hot water breaking and not getting fixed for a few days.

Review by Madison M (rating 1.9 out of 5, dated 12/22/20): While living in one of the "Towers" (Walker, Adams, and Couch) my freshman year of college at OU, I had a great experience with my roommate, but the Tower dorms are honestly not that great. They need to be updated and cleaned more regularly. The hallways and stairways always smell like trash. The times when they don't is when the university is having a major event where families are coming to campus. There are multiple common areas on the floors, which is nice in hindsight, until you actually live there. For example, there was a TV room on my floor that also contained the trash chute. No one would go in there and hang out because it always smelt gross due to said trash chute. It is a waste of space and never gets used. The location of the towers are perfect on campus, it is near everything, the university just needs to update the Towers (and its dorms) as well as, take better care of them. I love everything about OU, except for the Towers' dorms. If an incoming freshman asked my advice on if they should live in those dorms or the residential colleges, I would tell them to live in one of the residential colleges (which are newer, cleaner, and better taken care of) instead of the Tower dorms. The dorm rooms themselves are the same way. The walls are peeling with paint and the furniture is also peeling. When my roommate and I moved in at the start of the Fall, we even had a broken tile in our bathroom. There are "inspections" in every dorm, but the person who inspected our dorm just checked off "good condition" on everything. Students do get to fill out a report of issues in your dorm when you move in (so you don't get blamed), but, honestly, I am not seeing them do anything with those reports. With other colleges (such as OSU, University of Kentucky, etc.) improving their freshman dorms, I think OU definitely needs to update the Towers in order to make the amount of money we pay for housing worth it to live there. They need to make sure that before incoming freshman move in, the dorms are ACTUALLY "spick and span" (everything's working properly, nothing is damaged, etc. AND not just checking off "good condition" in every box when it is not) to ensure a great experience of living on campus. All in all, I would not recommend the Towers to incoming freshman at OU. I would highly recommend the residential colleges (Dunham and Headington) instead. While it is a little bit more money, you get a much better experience that's worth it.
